### Contact

Phone: 514-970-9179 

Email: vineet.kumar@mail.mcgill.ca 

Address: 917 Avenue de Melrose, Montreal, QC, Canada - H4A 2R3

### Summary

6+ years of relevant experience in software design and development. | M.Sc
Computer Science, McGill University.

Programming languages - Proficient: Python, C++, Java | Prior experience: X10,
Matlab.

### Work Experience

**Senior developer**
*INRO*, Montreal, QC, Canada
December 2014 - present (2.5 years)

- Built a new matrix calculator tool by writing a new parser and evaluator for
  Emme’s matrix expression language. (bit.ly/1N5geA8). It achieved 1.5x to 30x
  speedup depending on expression details and hardware resources. I also Built
  a memory management system to efficiently handle computations on matrices
  over 1GB in size. (Python and C++)

- Data analytics for GTFS and travel smart-card data: Developed techniques and
  tools to visually analyze public transport smart card data. These tools are
  used by clients to analyze and query things like loads, delays, and stop
  activities.

- Maintain and develop new Python API modules for Emme: It includes 1) Designing
  JSON input specifications that are used to interface Emme’s GUI frontend with
  the API. 2) Processing inputs to the API and generate code (Emme macros) used
  as input for Emme’s Fortran backend. 3) Parse output logs generated by the 
  backend and generate JSON reports used by the GUI.

- Work on optimizing and extending CityPhi’s core data backend. Also Designed
  and Developed CityPhi API for importing geo and transport data from various
  data formats like Shapefiles, OSM and GTFS.

**CTO and co-founder**
*ISENCORE Technologies*, Montreal, QC, Canada
September 2013 - December 2014 (1 year 3 months) 

- Implemented the 3D object discretization module for Quirdity, ISENCORE’s 3D
  simulation engine. (C++)

- Won first prize in the Mcgill Dobson cup 2014 startup competition.

- Delivered the winning pitch to get selected as one of the 20 startups
  worldwide to present at SLUSH 2014.

**Research and teaching**
*McGill University*, Montreal, QC, Canada
January 2012 - April 2014 (2 years 3 months)

- Research Assistant, Sable Lab - My research included program analysis and
  static compilation of dynamic languages.

- Designed and developed MiX10 : a Matlab to X10 compiler for high-performance,
  under Prof. Laurie Hendren’s supervision and with direct inputs from the X10
  design team at the IBM T.J. Watson research center. (Java)(bit.ly/1sZ8aqJ)

- Achieved 7 times (mean) faster performance compared to the standard Matlab
  implementation.

- Discovered 2 bugs and a severe performance bottleneck in the X10 compiler.

- Teaching Assistant - Program Analysis and Transformations, Compiler Design,
  and Introduction to Computer Systems.

**Systems engineer**
*Infosys Technologies Ltd.*, Pune, India
September 2008 - August 2011 (3 years)

- Led a team of 4 for deployment performance management for AT&T’s online and
  mobility frontend and backend applications.

- My team’s job was to design and develop performance test scripts, analyze
  results, and troubleshoot performance issues.

- Worked on 8 projects and they all exceeded performance SLA under peak loads.

**Student Tech Lead / Campus ambassador, APAC region**
*Sun Microsystems*, Bangalore, India
January 2007 - May 2008 (1 year 4 months)

- Promoted from being one of the only 27 Campus Ambassador across India to one
  of the only 5 Tech Leads worldwide.

- Taught a course on OpenSolaris at the university. Conducted webinars and
  developed tutorials for ambassadors worldwide.

### Publications

- Vineet Kumar and Laurie Hendren. MiX10 : Compiling Matlab to X10 for High
  Performance. In Proceedings of the 2014 ACM International Conference on
  Object Oriented Programming Systems Languages & Applications (OOPSLA‘14).
  (bit.ly/1sft0PU)

- Vineet Kumar and Laurie Hendren. First steps to compiling Matlab to X10 . In
  Proceedings of the 2013 ACM SIGPLAN X10 Workshop, X10 ‘13 co-located with
  PLDI 2013.(bit.ly/18owBUI)

### Education

**M.Sc. in Computer Science**, April 2014
*McGill University*, Montreal, QC, Canada
- Master’s thesis reviewed as “Excellent” by the external reviewer.

**B.Tech. in Computer Science & Engineering**, June 2008
*SASTRA University*, Thanjavur, India
- Won the Dean’s list scholarship for being among the top 10% students in the
  University.

### Selected other projects

Analysis to identify complex numerical values for Matlab
programs.(bit.ly/15SYKmC)
- Developed a language to express information propagation through library
  function calls.(bit.ly/1ezq93q)

FreeMeLegal: An Open source license recommendation engine.(bit.ly/1m030GV)
